Vocabulary Maintenance
Content maintenance
The goal is for each controlled vocabulary to be stored and published using a 'semantic web' representation - typically using SKOS for basic terms, definitions and (optionally) hierarchy; else using a domain-specific ontology if available. However, while it is eminently suitable for this application, it is a rather esoteric technology, unfamilar to most scientists and developers, and generally unsuitable for the development and maintenance of vocabaularies by subject-matter experts.

For most users, the most convenient tool for development and maintenance of vocabaulary content is an Excel file (.xls or .xlsx format). Provided this is set up using a suitable template, the semantic web representation can be generated directly using SKOS Play!,

Generating RDF (SKOS)
Go to https://skos-play.sparna.fr/play/convert Check In a local file on my computer and select the xslx file.

Convert

Copy result into xxxx.ttl file.

Edit for Loading in RVA - note - the simple structure of this vocabulary at 07-04-2022 does not require any edits before loading to RVA

Loading in RVA
In demo mode: 
If you want to do a test, load the vocabulary in development mode. To to this, 
log on to https://demo.vocabs.ardc.edu.au

alternativly log in to out of demo mode - 
Login to https://vocabs.ardc.edu.au and go to 'My Vocabs'.

Each of the steps below have to be done in both demo and production

Select 'My Vocabs Login'
Login using your Australian Access Federation Credentials. Contact ARDC if you require credentials 
Login to Federated Services - Search for Federation University Australia
Enter your Username and Password


To edit or upload a new version of FedUni created collections of soil concepts (at 07-04-2022 was titled 'Soil Vocabularies coordinated through Federation University:

The video here is of creation and upload of a different vocabulary to RVA (out of demo mode). The production and demo RVA interfaces are much the same, so the video will be useful whether you are creating or modifying a new vocabulary either in demo or production mode:

To edit of add metadata viewable in RVA interface of an existing vocabulary:
Note, this is only the metadata viewable in RVA interface - there are also other metadata fields you can add or edit direct in the vocabulary .ttl file. This would require uppload of a new version (see below). 
Select the Published Vocabulary 'Soil Vocabularies coordinated through Federation University' (or whatever the title is edited to be)
Here, you can edit the metadata and click 'publish' - this will publish metadata changes (ie will not need a new vocabulary version number)

To add a New Version 
to 'Versions' > '+ Add a version'Add a version - give the version a Title that is short 
Add Access Point - TTL
Upload file xxx.ttl
Add
select - Display Collections (not ConceptScheme)
Import, make available
Add this version
Publish

To add a New Vocabulary
Select owner
Make sure the Vocabulary Acronym is short  - the purpose is for use in the URL ie it is not for the end user to see on the inferface 
Enter metadata
Then, as per instructions to add a New Version


